.Dd December 30, 2015
.Dt IMV 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm imv
.Nd view images
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl adfhlru
.Op Fl b Ar color
.Op Fl e Ar font:size
.Op Fl n Ar position
.Op Fl t Ar seconds
.Op Ar
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is an image viewer for
.Xr X 7
and Wayland, aimed at users of tiling window managers.
It supports a wide variety of image file formats, including animated gif files.
.Nm
reloads the current image if it detects changes to the file.
.Pp
When run with argument
.Sq - ,
.Nm
reads the list of images from standard input.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl a
Default to showing images at actual size.
.It Fl b Ar color
Set the background color.
Either
.Ar checks
or a hex color value.
Defaults to
.Ar #000000 .
.It Fl e Ar font:size
Set the font used by the overlay.
.Ar font
can be any valid system font, such as FreeSans, FreeMono, etc.
Defaults to
.Ar Monospace:24 ,
which is the default monospace font, as configured in
.Xr fonts.conf 5 .
.It Fl d
Show textual overlay.
.It Fl f
Start in full screen mode.
.It Fl h
Print help message.
.It Fl l
List open files on exit.
.It Fl n Ar position
Start at specific position in image list.
.Ar position
may be expressed as a number or as a path of an image.
.It Fl r
Recursively search input paths for files.
.It Fl t Ar seconds 
Set the slideshow delay in seconds.
Fractional numbers are accepted.
Setting this to zero disables slideshow mode, which is the default.
.It Fl u
Use nearest neighbour resampling. Recommended for pixel art.
.El
.Sh CONTROLS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Aq Cm left mouse button
Pan relative to mouse motion.
.It Aq Cm mouse wheel
Zoom in and out.
.It Cm q
Quit.
.It Ao Cm left Ac | Cm \&[
Change to previous image.
.It Ao Cm right Ac | Cm \&]
Change to next image.
.It Cm i | Cm + | Aq Cm up
Zoom in.
.It Cm o | Cm - | Aq Cm down
Zoom out.
.It Cm r
Reset view
.It Cm a
View image at actual size.
.It Cm c
Center image in window.
.It Cm h
Pan left.
.It Cm j
Pan down.
.It Cm k
Pan up.
.It Cm l
Pan right.
.It Cm x
Close current image.
.It Cm f
Toggle fullscreen.
.It Cm SPACE
Toggle gif playback.
.It Cm .
Step forward one frame (when playing gifs).
.It Cm p
Print current image path to stdout
.It Cm t
Increase slideshow delay by one second
.It Cm T
Decrease slideshow delay by one second.
When delay is zero, slideshow mode is disabled.
.Sh LEGAL
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.
.Pp
This software uses the FreeImage open source image library.
See
.Lk http://freeimage.sourceforge.net
for details.
FreeImage is used under the GNU GPLv2.
.Sh AUTHOR
.An Harry Jeffery
